EVERYTHING about UTM tags in Mautic (#712)
mautic/user-documentation: docs/utm_tags/utm_tags_dynamic_web_content.rst

.. vale off

Configure DWC blocks
********************

.. vale on

#. Open the DWC block and the edit details:

   #. Go to **Components** > **Dynamic Content**.
   #. Click the name of the DWC block you want to modify.
   #. Click **Edit**.

#. Locate the **UTM tags** dropdown menu in the right-hand panel at the bottom. Expanding this section exposes the UTM parameter fields, which sit separately from the content body and filter conditions.

#. Fill in the UTM fields you want to apply to links inside this block:

   * **Campaign source**: where you place the block, for example, ``dwc``
   * **Campaign medium**: the Channel type, for example, ``website``
   * **Campaign name**: the Campaign name, for example, ``spring_sale_2026``
   * **Campaign content**: optional field for finer-grained tracking

#. Save the DWC block.

#. Embed the block on your website.

#. Test by visiting the Landing Page as an anonymous visitor, hovering over or clicking a link inside the DWC block, and confirming the destination URL now includes your UTM parameters, for example:

   .. code-block:: text

>       https://yoursite.com/landing?utm_campaign=spring_sale_2026&utm_medium=website&utm_source=dwc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      https://example.com/landing?utm_campaign=spring_sale_2026&utm_medium=website&utm_source=dwc
```

The ``utm_medium=website`` value reflects that the block renders on a website Landing Page rather than inside an Email. Keeping the medium accurate allows your analytics tool to classify traffic into the correct Channels. The ``utm_campaign`` value ties this block's traffic to the same named Campaign you use in Emails and ads, aggregating all Campaign-level traffic under one name in your Reports.

.. warning::

   If a link in your DWC content already contains hard-coded UTM parameters, Mautic may append a second set, resulting in a malformed URL. Keep links in DWC content clean without manual UTM parameters, and let block-level fields handle tagging.

.. tip::

   Use consistent naming across blocks. If one block uses ``source=dwc`` and another uses ``source=dynamic-web-content``, your analytics data splits across two rows, making comparison difficult.

> When the setup is working correctly, links inside the DWC block include UTM parameters when rendered on the Landing Page. Clicking through and checking the destination URL in the browser address bar shows the correct parameters. Traffic from that block appears as a distinct source or medium combination in Google Analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the setup is working correctly, links inside the DWC block include UTM parameters when rendered on the Landing Page. Clicking through and checking the destination URL in the browser address bar shows the correct parameters. Traffic from that block appears as a distinct source or medium combination in your analytics platform
```
Let's not assume everyone's using Google :)
